# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
- console.rb file
- Property.all()
- Property.find(id)
- Property.find_by_address(address)

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
- "Insert ....' in save()

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
- line 4 => Property.delete_all()
- line 13 => property1.save()
- line 22 => property2.save()
- line 31 => property3.save()
- line 33 => property1.delete()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
- Because we put id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY in properties table so it will add an id every time we insert new entry.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
- In the save method by reading the result from the exec_prepared and accessing the 'id' with index 0, and convert it to integer and store it in the instance variable @id
- We also do the same concept in Property.all, Property.find, and Property.find_by_address but we get the entire object back, and pass it to the initialize method

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
- In the initialize method of the property class

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
- Class methods are helpful to find a record in the DB and create an instance from it that I can use later. Instance methods are useful to provide quick save/update/delete methods on the object after I've found or created it.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
- Array of hashes is returned. We access it by getting first element returned from the insert, and access the id from the hash and convert it to integer

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
- To prevent our database from hacking

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
Id and address resepectively

Q11. What are their return values?
They both return Property instance if found, nil if not.